[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>GEORGE NOORY: Well,
welcome to this edition
of "Beyond Belief."
I'm George Noory,
and what a program
we have in store
for you right now.
My special guest
is Andrew Collins.
He is a researcher,
a noted author.
He's written 15 books about
all kinds of mysteries,
and his latest is called
"The Cygnus Key," which we'll
get into in just a moment.
Andrew, welcome to the program.
>>ANDREW COLLINS:
Thank you, George.
Great to be here.
>>NOORY: I always
love meeting people
who have been on
a radio show when
I don't have an opportunity to
because I hear you from afar.
You're based in
England most of the--
>>COLLINS: I am.
>>NOORY: --time, aren't you?
>>COLLINS: Yes, yes.
I'm based just outside of
London in the county of Essex
overlooking the Thames Estuary.
So that's where I come from
when I'm on the phone to you.
>>NOORY: How did you get
involved in investigating some
of these ancient mysteries?
>>COLLINS: Well, I
think I've always
had an interest in these
right from when I was a child.
I had these interests,
and when I went to school
I suddenly found that the other
kids didn't share the interest.
So at that point, you
start reaching out
and looking for others
that share your interest.
So I joined groups
and organizations,
and I read books on UFOs,
ghosts, ancient mysteries,
including Erich von
Daniken's "Chariots
of the Gods," which
showed me that there
was a whole number of ancient
sites around the world that
still had question marks
associated with them,
whether it be the
Pyramids of Giza in Egypt,
the Nazca Lines in Peru, or
any other of these great sites
around the world.
And I felt I wanted to
connect with them in some way,
investigate them and find
out what made them tick.
>>NOORY: And you did, and
you did in a very big way.
Erich von Daniken, of
course, has his own program
here on Gaia, and I was
mesmerized by his work
when I was younger,
"Chariots of the Gods."
Every time I'm
with Erich, I tell
him, god, when I was a kid,
I loved reading your books.
And he said, I'm not that old.
But he's done a magnificent
job bringing these stories
to the forefront
for us, as you have.
Now, your latest work is
called "The Cygnus Key."
What does that mean?
>>COLLINS: Well,
"Cygnus" is a Latin word,
and it simply means "swan."
And Cygnus is a constellation
in the northern part
of the sky, which is also
known as the Northern Cross,
because it looks obviously
like a cross shape in the sky.
And it is a place that has been
extra special to our ancestors
probably for at
least 17,000 years.
I mean, it's depicted
in the caves of France,
in the Ice Age friezes
and paintings there.
It's represented
by the orientation
of various buildings around
the world, which are focused
upon key stars of Cygnus.
And it's also mentioned
in various ancient texts.
Various ancient religions
seemed to particularly focus
on that particular
group of stars.
So there was something
important about it,
and I got on to its
significance in the early 2000s.
And I started to realize
that whereas most people were
aware of the importance
of, let's say,
Orion or the Pleiades, that
there was a missing key here,
and that was Cygnus.
>>NOORY: You have spent a
lot of time investigating
different regions of this
planet for these mysteries.
One is in Turkey
called Gobekli Tepe.
Tell me what that is.
>>COLLINS: Well, Gobekli
Tepe was discovered in 1994
by an enlightened
German archaeologist
by the name of
Professor Klaus Schmidt,
and he had been
working in the region.
And he climbed this
mountaintop one day
and found that there
was a huge, ancient,
what they call an
occupational mound, or tepe,
on the top of it, which was
about 300 yards by about
200 yards in size by
about 45 feet in height.
>>NOORY: Jeez, on
top of this mountain?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
And all around was evidence
of prehistoric activity
in the form of flint tools,
which he could instantly date
back at least 10,000 years.
But there were also
carved fragments
of stone of beautiful
animals and human features.
And these he recognized
also as belonging
to a very ancient
prehistoric people that
existed in this region as a
[INAUDIBLE] as much as 10,000,
11,000, even 12,000 years ago.
And what's so strange is
that a team of scientists
had visited the site in 1963,
and they'd seen these same--
>>NOORY: The same thing, right?
>>COLLINS: --these same stone
carvings but dismissed them
as Byzantine, no more
than 1,000 years old,
because they looked so
beautifully finished.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>COLLINS: So they missed an
opportunity of investigating it
back in the '60s.
But Klaus Schmidt realized
the significance of this site
and immediately began
excavations there,
which have continued
from that day to this.
And what they've uncovered
is a whole series
of what they call stone
enclosures, which consist
of standing stones, of
megaliths, great stones,
which are in circles, just like
the stone circles of Europe.
So we're talking about
something like Stonehenge
but multiplied by
perhaps a dozen times.
And all of the
stones are covered
in the most beautiful carved
imagery of birds and animals
and insects.
But also, many of the
stones are anthropomorphic.
>>NOORY: How big
are they, Andrew?
>>COLLINS: The tallest of
them are about 18 and 1/2 feet
in height.
>>NOORY: Whoa.
>>COLLINS: These are these
huge monoliths, twin monoliths,
they have at the center
of these stone circles.
All of them have
these twin monoliths.
And the stones have these
T-shaped terminations,
which are abstract heads.
They also have in relief these
arms around the sides of them
that come together in these
spindly fingers at the front,
carved fingers, to show
that the stones actually
represent beings of some kind.
Now, as to what they represent,
they could be the first gods.
They could be celestial beings.
Or they could be
divine ancestors.
We don't know.
But clearly, these
people venerated
whoever was meant to be
signified by these stones.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLLINS: So I mean, and
there the mystery begins.
>>NOORY: How did ancients
carve out stones like that?
What kind of tools
did they have?
>>COLLINS: At that time, they
certainly had no metal tools.
So everything must have been
done with stone tools, flint,
most obviously.
And there's no
secret in the fact
that they were doing
it at this time,
because the quarries are nearby.
Experimental
archeology has shown us
that you can actually carve
one of these reliefs of animals
pretty quickly.
A day or two is
all you would need.
And to actually create one
of the stone enclosures
would probably take
around a year to do.
But what's so significant is
the number of these enclosures.
Although there is about a dozen
that they've uncovered so far,
it's believed that there could
be anything up to 20 or even 50
still to be uncovered beneath
this layer cake, which
is made up of stone
rubble, of earth,
and general waste,
which was thrown on
to cover over these enclosures.
>>NOORY: And I guess
erosion would do that, too?
>>COLLINS: No, no, I
think it was purposely--
>>NOORY: Really?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Covered up on purpose.
>>COLLINS: These were
purposely buried,
not all at the same time.
What seems to have
happened is that they
would create one of these stone
enclosures, which, by the way,
the oldest are the most
technologically accomplished
and the most beautiful
and the largest,
and they date to about
11,500 years ago.
>>NOORY: That's a
long time ago, Andrew.
>>COLLINS: Well, it's the
end of the last Ice Age,
I mean, within a century
or so of the actual end
of the last Ice Age.
>>NOORY: How many
people do you think
may have lived in
that region up there?
>>COLLINS: Well, actually,
at Gobekli Tepe, none.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLLINS: This was a
site that was either
for ceremonial or civic usage.
People didn't live there.
They may have stayed there
maybe for a few days.
>>NOORY: So they would live
down below on the mountain.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, they lived
in settlements perhaps five,
eight miles away.
Because various mounds have
been found of activity,
which shows that these
people lived there, probably
near water sources, and then
moved up onto the mountaintop
to do all the work.
And you're dealing here with
hundreds, if not thousands,
of people being brought
together at a time when,
in theory, there were no
cities anywhere in the world.
Certainly, the rituals
would have taken place
at specific times.
But of course, it's
what was going on here.
I mean, why build this?
Why do this?
>>NOORY: There's got
to be a purpose for it.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, I mean,
there was no cities.
All you had at this time was
hunter-gatherers officially,
officially, hunter-gatherers.
>>NOORY: And that means
they hunt, they eat.
They hunt, they eat, right?
>>COLLINS: They do
their own thing.
They have their own
little family units, maybe
an extended family
group or social group.
They were nomadic.
They would just maybe
settle for a few months
and then move on and have like
a cycle that would probably
last like five years.
This is how archaeologists
see hunter-gatherers.
And people say,
well, I don't believe
that Gobekli Tepe could have
been made by hunter-gatherers.
There must have been an
advanced civilization.
Well, if that's
the case, well, we
need to find that lost
civilization, which
takes us on to the next level.
>>NOORY: The next
level, that's right.
>>COLLINS: But officially, we
only have hunter-gatherers.
But they must have been very
clever hunter-gatherers,
because there were carvers.
They could quarry these stones.
They made these
beautiful monuments,
which were technologically
advanced in a manner that
was unique to the
planet at this time.
Archaeologists
consider Gobekli Tepe
to be the first
"monumental architecture"--
that's the term they use--
anywhere in the
world officially,
officially at least.
>>NOORY: Pretty dramatic.
Gregg Braden, who has a series
on Gaia called "Missing Links,"
is fascinated with Gobekli Tepe.
>>GREGG BRADEN: We're
looking at evidence
of advanced technological
civilizations
during a time we were
told only primitive mud
huts in primitive
societies were existing.
Now, there's so many
of these anomalies
that we could take the
time to explore right now,
but I'd like to
cut to the chase.
I want to spend a
little bit of time
on the oldest technologically
advanced civilization
that science has now
agreed is a technologically
advanced civilization, and
they've agreed upon the dates.
It's a very mysterious site.
It's located in southern Turkey
near the Syrian border, which
makes it a very difficult
place for archaeologists
to get into right now because of
the war that's happening there.
It is called Gobekli
Tepe, Gobekli Tepe.
And it is a site that
has been on the radar
of some archaeologists
for some time.
>>NOORY: Andrew, how
long do you think
it took for the indigenous
people of that era
to build that place?
>>COLLINS: Well, I think
each enclosure probably
took about a year to construct,
and it was built successively
over a period of time,
probably around 1,500 years,
from about 9,500.
>>NOORY: 1,500
years to build this?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
Well, I mean, stage by stage.
>>NOORY: In stages.
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
I think that each
of the enclosures
would have been in use
for, I'm going to guess,
100 years, something like that.
And then at the
end of it, it would
seem to have been
decommissioned and covered over.
And then they would build
another one next to it,
or they would build
it on top of that.
So gradually, the occupational
mound is extending outwards
and also upwards as well.
So you've got the oldest
structures actually
on the bedrock, and you've
got the young structures
at the top.
But what's so significant is
that the oldest structures
are really sophisticated.
They're really advanced.
Everything about them
suggests a high culture.
But those that are the
youngest are minuscule in size.
I mean, they're almost the
size of something like sort
of a tiny family room.
And because they
have these benches
around them, these
tiny little stones,
it almost gives the impression
of like a family Jacuzzi
or something like that.
>>NOORY: Right--
>>COLLINS: It's very odd.
>>NOORY: --where
they just gathered.
>>COLLINS: It's almost
like they were going
through the motions at the end.
It was like-- it was like they
had to keep up a certain style.
They had to still create these
stones, these T-shaped stones,
but it's almost they'd forgotten
why they were doing it.
And then eventually,
around 8,000
BC they give up completely,
and they move out.
But something has
changed by this time,
because during this
1,500-year window, there's--
>>NOORY: This building window.
>>COLLINS: This
building window, we have
what's known as the
Neolithic Revolution.
And this begins in this very
area of the globe, I mean,
within sight of Gobekli Tepe,
and it cannot be unconnected.
And this is the
invention of agriculture,
of animal domestication
and animal
husbandry, of metal work, the
first beer, the first wine.
Lots of different
firsts for humanity
all begin within
sight of Gobekli Tepe,
and that's no coincidence.
>>NOORY: Whenever we hear
about ancient discoveries,
like Baalbek in Lebanon, we
think of extraterrestrials,
or it's a landing port for UFOs.
Is there anything
there which would
lead you to believe
that there was
some kind of
extraterrestrial involvement,
or it was a landing base
on top of the mountain?
>>COLLINS: I don't think
it was a landing base.
I have to be honest.
The other thing I can say is
that this area, the mountains,
which is the most
southerly-most extent of what's
known as the Anti-Taurus Range,
are well known for UFO lights.
They've been seen for
hundreds of years,
and they're still seen today.
It's possible that one
of the reasons for siting
Gobekli Tepe at
that location was
because of the strange
lights that were being seen.
But secondly, the carved
imagery of many of the stones
is so alien, so
strange, so unique
that you could look at it and
think that these people could
have been in touch with
celestial beings or something
that was guiding them
to carve in this manner.
>>NOORY: Now, these
carvings that are so unique,
what do they depict?
>>COLLINS: Well, many animals
and creatures and birds.
>>NOORY: That are indigenous
to this country, this planet?
>>COLLINS: We don't know.
I mean, we're dealing
with 11,500 years ago.
We don't know exactly
because we don't
have enough evidence of the
animal remains to tell us
exactly what species
are being depicted
and whether those species
were actually local.
But you've got everything
there from huge great bulls,
which are known as Aurochs,
which existed at that time.
You've got snakes,
lots of boars.
You've got many
different types of birds,
including the vulture,
the crane, what
appear to be geese,
and possibly even
a form of the dodo,
an extinct bird.
You've got insects
like ants and spiders.
>>NOORY: They would
make little ants?
>>COLLINS: Yeah, yeah, huge,
yeah, big representations.
>>NOORY: Jeez.
>>COLLINS: You've got scorpions.
And all I can say is
that these creatures,
most of them you don't want to
be in a small room locked up
with.
>>NOORY: No.
>>COLLINS: Because
they're going to bite.
They're going to gore.
They're going to kill.
>>NOORY: They're
going to get you.
>>COLLINS: And I suppose,
in some ways, that
is part of the
mentality of the hunter,
that you have to
be on your guard
even when doing these
rituals and ceremonies.
And you have to
start questioning,
what's going on here?
I mean, why did they
build this place?
I mean, why did they build--
why did all these people get
together to construct this?
>>NOORY: And who planned it?
I mean, can you
imagine the meeting
before they started
building this thing?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
>>NOORY: What they
would talk about?
Somebody had to conceive it--
>>COLLINS: Well, exactly.
>>NOORY: --and say, hey, let's
do this for this purpose.
What was the purpose?
>>COLLINS: Well, there
is almost no evidence
of similar type of
stone structures
existing prior to this time.
>>NOORY: Anywhere.
>>COLLINS: No, no.
I mean, there's
a few candidates,
which maybe we can talk about.
But this is the only
official stone structures
or monumental architecture
that existed in this age.
And if it was part of what you
might call a lost civilization,
you have to start asking,
what does the word
"civilization" actually mean?
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLLINS: Well, it means
a social order, really,
a civilized lifestyle
that involves
certain types of
day-to-day function,
but also it includes
the use of writing.
And all of the these you
have at Gobekli Tepe,
because very clearly
there was some kind
of hierarchical structure
to what was going on.
There was what we'd call a power
elite behind the motivating,
of the bringing together
of these hunter-gatherers
to create monuments like this.
You have, obviously, people
carving and quarrying
and managing and whatever.
>>NOORY: Yeah, they must
have had hundreds of workers.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, absolutely.
But beyond that, you
also have the writing,
because on various of the stones
are what we call ideograms
or even you might
call hieroglyphs,
which are mysterious.
I mean, like the
letter H appears,
the letter C, and
various other symbols
that crop up again and
again that obviously
have some kind of meaning,
probably, and sound.
>>NOORY: And they haven't
been deciphered yet.
>>COLLINS: No.
I mean, clearly
researchers like myself
have ideas about what they
mean, but there is no textbook
that we can look at and
say, yes, it means that yet.
So there was some
kind of power elite.
So we have to ask
ourselves, who were they?
And my best guess
at the moment is
that they came in from the
North, probably across--
between the two great
seas in that region,
which is the Black Sea
and the Caspian Sea.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLLINS: Between
those two is what's
known as the Caucasus,
or Caucasian Mountains,
and these are an impenetrable
barrier, basically.
You have to go around them.
But beyond them is what's
known as the Russian steppe.
And I think that there is
good evidence of high culture
existing prior to this
time in that area.
>>NOORY: In that area.
>>COLLINS: And that
peoples from up there
came down via the Caucasus
into what we know now as Turkey
and took over,
took over the show,
and they brought
together the people.
But why create
monuments like this?
Well, I think we have to start
looking at the time frame,
because it wasn't simply a case
of the end of the last Ice Age.
But the world had undergone a
terrible cataclysm just prior
to this time, which we now
know as the Younger Dryas comet
impact event.
>>NOORY: Explain that.
>>COLLINS: Well,
around 10,800 BC,
it would seem as if a comet
entered the inner solar system,
fragmented, sending literally
hundreds of thousands of pieces
on a direct trajectory
towards the Earth.
>>NOORY: And we know it
doesn't take a big one
to cause all kinds of havoc.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
And it would seem as if the
worst hit was North America,
and it left behind literally
hundreds of thousands
of craters, which we know
today as the Carolina Bays.
>>NOORY: OK.
>>COLLINS: And these are
elliptical-oriented craters
that stretch from New York State
all the way down to Florida,
with the biggest concentration--
>>NOORY: If it happened today--
>>COLLINS: --around
today North Carolina.
>>NOORY: --it would be an
earth-shattering killer,
wouldn't it?
>>COLLINS: It would, and
it created wildfires.
It created what we would
call today a nuclear winter,
blocking out the sun for
a long period of time.
It melted large
parts of the ice,
because fragments
hit the ice sheets.
And this was not something that
lasted just for a few days.
It lasted for hundreds of years,
I mean, the aftermath of it.
And it triggered a
mini-ice age, which
we call the Younger
Dryas, and it actually
ended around 9,600 BC.
That's probably around
the time that Gobekli Tepe
started to be built.
And there are various symbols
at Gobekli Tepe, various stones,
that suggest to
us comet imagery,
as if these people were
constructing these monuments
not simply as a reminder of
what was going on, but almost
as a portal or gateway to allow
access from the physical world
to the other world, what
we might call the sky
world or the upper
world, to deal
with the supernatural
creatures or divine beings
or whatever it was that they saw
as responsible for cataclysm.
Because it looks as if the
people were still in fear
that cataclysms like
this would occur again,
and this time the
world would end.
And the visionary
writer Barbara Hand Clow
described this state of
fear as "catastrophobia,"
and she actually wrote
a book under that title.
>>NOORY: She did, yeah.
>>COLLINS: And I think it's
a wonderful name for it,
because these
people, at the time,
had no psychologists,
no psychoanalysts.
They couldn't go to
him and say, look,
I've got a bit of a problem
that I need you to sort out.
The only people around at that
time were probably shamans.
And I think what happened
is that the shaman listened
to the people and
said, look, no problem.
We can sort it out for you,
but you have to do what we say,
and part of that
involves the creation
of these incredible
stone monuments.
And what we will do is we
will work on your behalf.
We will do the rituals.
We will counteract the
supernatural forces
and ensure that they don't
create any further cataclysms.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>COLLINS: And the
people said, oh, OK,
because they believed them.
And I think this
is what happened.
But as the years went
by, the centuries
rolled by, as no
further cataclysms
took place, the meaning of
Gobekli Tepe got less and less.
So they were just going
through the motions at the end,
until eventually they thought,
what are we doing here?
We might as well just move on.
And I think that's
exactly what happened.
But this connection
with the sky world
is actually very, very
potent, because it wasn't just
any old place that they went.
It would seem as if they
had a specific location
or a specific doorway that they
would cross between this world
into the next.
And that is where I come in
with the book, "The Cygnus Key."
>>NOORY: You did
a great job, too.
Our dear friend Erich von
Daniken has his own thoughts,
tying in Abraham from
the Old Testament
and this entire region.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
>>VON DANIKEN: Gobekli
Tepe is in Turkey today.
And Gobekli Tepe is, again, one
of the very, very old places
dated at least 11,000 BC.
And we have no reason why
somebody made some stone
structures in Gobekli Tepe.
I have a speculation why.
Because today Gobekli
Tepe is very near.
It's about 10 kilometers
away from the place
where our progenitor,
Abraham, was living.
And Abraham, again, was writing
about extraterrestrials.
There is an old text called
the Abraham apocryphic.
And there Abraham-- he says he
was sitting outside his tent,
then he heard a
noise in the sky.
Some beings descended
from the sky,
and he clearly say
they were not human.
>>NOORY: So Erich
definitely believes
there was an extraterrestrial
presence at that time.
>>COLLINS: Well, with
his extraterrestrial,
I would say celestial,
which is probably the same,
I should think.
But for me, the
builders of Gobekli Tepe
had an integral
connection with the stars.
And that connection meant that
they used these enclosures,
almost like stargates,
if you like.
The huge, great, twin
monoliths in the center,
acting as like
portals or guidance.
And I think that
the place of shaman
would actually
stand between them,
enter into an altered
state of consciousness,
and project their minds into
this otherworldly environment
where they would meet the sky
beings, the celestial gods,
whatever you want
to see them as.
And they had a function.
And that function was to ensure
that the world did not undergo
anymore of the cataclysms.
In my opinion, this was
one of the primary purposes
for building Gobekli Tepe.
But by doing this,
it also reveals
to us very clearly
what parts of the sky
that they were interested in.
Because all of
these twin monoliths
seem to be focused towards one
particular star of the sky.
And this is Deneb,
the brightest star
in the constellation of Cygnus.
>>NOORY: Like that about a
system where ETs came from?
And they told them about that?
>>COLLINS: ETs.
All around the world,
we find that there
are monuments from
the Pyramids of Giza,
to Native American
mound complexes,
to Hindu temples in the
Indian subcontinent,
to stone circles in Hawaii.
All the way around the world,
we have ancient monuments
focused to this very
same star in the sky.
So it must have been--
>>NOORY: Amazing.
>>COLLINS: --very,
very important to us.
So we have to start asking,
why this area of the sky?
And I think that there are
probably multiple answers,
but one of them is the fact
that it is very clearly placed
on the Milky Way.
The Milky Way was seen in
the past as a road or river
to the sky world, because
it linked to the horizon
at specific times--
the solstices and the equinoxes.
And it was believed that
the soul, whether it
be of the deceased on death,
or indeed, that of the shaman,
could journey to the horizon--
specific points, generally
at the winter solstice.
And they would then rise
up in a symbolic manner
and enter into the sky world
via this particular star,
then up into the
constellation of Cygnus,
so that's one reason.
Also, there have been
some great discoveries
in the area of Cygnus.
I mean, we know that it's
one of the only sources
of cosmic rays.
And cosmic rays are
important to us,
because they affect
mutations in human evolution.
And that it may well be that
these cosmic rays coming
from Cygnus have created
the way that we are today.
But beyond that,
there is something
that's been discovered
only in the past few years
by astronomers, which is
taking the headlines in science
at this moment, and it's
quite an extraordinary story.
And it's that of Tabby's
Star, a star that also has
the low number of KIC 8462852.
And this is what they call today
the alien megastructure star,
because a satellite
by the name of Kepler
went up in 2009, looking
for Earth-like planets.
>>NOORY: And they
found many so far.
>>COLLINS: They found
thousands of them.
But they also discovered
something else unique,
and this was a star,
which was dipping
the light that we were seeing.
In other words, something
was going in front of it
in a very, very
irregular fashion.
Its light was dipping
by anything up to 15%
at one point, 22% on another.
On many other
occasions, 5, 2%, 1%,
whatever, in a manner
which was so strange
the astronomers had never seen
anything like this before.
And an astronomer by the
name of Tabetha Boyajian
was given the job
of-- try to sort out
what was going on up there.
And she wrote a paper suggesting
it was lots of comets.
And there's been a
lot of objections,
saying that you'd need
something like 648,000 comets
to actually create
this type of dips.
There's lots of
theories going around.
But the most exciting
is that what's going on
is artificial and could be some
kind of alien megastructure,
or even more than one, that are
in orbit around the star that
would give exactly
this type of signature.
But what's even more--
>>NOORY: Dramatic.
>>COLLINS: --weird is that these
dips in light have certain--
what we call periodicities.
And they seem to be giving
out mathematical patterns that
are very specifically
multiples of the rotation
of the star itself.
And they are all
in sequences of 11,
and that all of
these periodicities
are also integrally
bound with Earth days.
In other words, they synchronize
perfectly with Earth days.
>>NOORY: OK.
What are the odds of
that just happening?
>>COLLINS: Well--
>>NOORY: Astronomical.
>>COLLINS: --of course.
But, I mean, there are
three possibilities.
One is that this is some kind
of weird, natural process that
goes on in the
universe that we--
>>NOORY: Possible.
>>COLLINS: --don't
quite understand.
Two, that the star is in some
way sentient or intelligent,
and it's doing it itself.
Or three, that it's
extraterrestrial.
That there is--
>>NOORY: All great theories.
All of them.
>>COLLINS: --and all of
them we're thinking about,
because these
mathematical patterns
don't seem to be going away.
The star is still
doing these dips, even
within the past month or so.
And it's giving these
mathematical patterns.
Now, many astronomers predicted
that one of the first pieces
of evidence of first contact--
even Carl Sagan, for instance,
in his book "Contact,"
said that we would
find them sending us
mathematical information
like prime numbers,
prime number sequences.
Many people remember
the film "Contact."
>>NOORY: In a code, almost.
>>COLLINS: Yeah, which is
exactly what's happening.
And these numbers are not simply
just multiples of nothingness.
They relate specifically
to mathematical formula,
particularly something
called Pascal's triangle,
which is something that's
used within mathematics,
to solve all sorts
of weird problems,
also to generate the
Fibonacci sequence of numbers.
And it also gives us
all of the mathematics
for higher-dimensional geometry.
And the number sequences that
have been broadcast by the star
relate to row 11 of
Pascal's triangle, which
is all to do with the 11th
dimension, or 11 dimensions.
And of course,
this is the number
of dimensions in
superstring theory,
or so-called
M-theory, which is all
about the strings on
a subatomic level.
Everything is like these
tiny little strings.
What's the chances of that?
>>NOORY: Exactly.
But, what would the
purpose be to do all this?
Are they sending us a message?
Is that a system of how they
travel throughout space?
What could it be?
>>COLLINS: All of it and more.
And then you have to start
looking at places like Gobekli
Tepe and say, did the
ancients know something
that we're only
rediscovering now today?
>>NOORY: And if that's
true, how can that
be without the knowledge of
the extraterrestrial presence?
>>COLLINS: Well, exactly.
>>NOORY: That's dramatic.
It also seems to tie into the
construction of the pyramids.
Wasn't everything done
around the same time period?
>>COLLINS: Well, OK, let's look
at Tabby's Star for a moment.
Tabby's Star is 1,300
light years away.
So what that means
is what we're seeing
is already 1,300 years out.
>>NOORY: Right.
It could have burned out by now.
Who knows?
>>COLLINS: It could have done.
It could have.
It's unlikely, but
it could have done.
So you have to say, well, what
use is this information to us?
If we send back a message, they
could have destroyed themselves
by now.
Well, you see, we need
to see beyond this.
Because the speed of light
is the maximum in theory
you can travel as far
as speed is concerned.
And we're unlikely to
achieve that anytime soon.
And I think that
the universe itself
would have built in a
much more immediate means
of communication.
And I think that is probably
quantum entanglement.
And that's the idea that
old particles are conjoined.
They have twins.
And if you see the
misease of infinite amount
of subatomic particles existing
everywhere all the time, some
of the ones that are my
head, or in your head,
or in everybody
else's head, that this
is the answer to everything from
telepathy to even precognition.
Because entanglement works
outside of normal time.
So if that's the
case, and there is
no time, then if there is ETI
in connection with this star,
or even if it's the star
itself that's intelligent,
we should be able to
communicate with it instantly.
We should be able to just use
mental sympathy, meditation,
or whatever other
process you might
want, to actually
send a message that's
instantaneous to this
star, and perhaps
even to receive an
instantaneous reply.
And how could that happen?
Well, this is something
I've actually been
trying to do experimentation.
Earlier this year
was the conference,
CONTACT in the DESERT, in
California, which I know--
>>NOORY: I was out there.
>>COLLINS: --that you were at--
>>NOORY: We were there.
>>COLLINS: --yourself.
And we actually
did a experiment.
We tried to communicate with
Tabby's Star in meditation.
And that very day it
responded with the first dip
that occurred.
>>NOORY: And astronomers
found, right?
>>COLLINS: Yeah.
Now, OK, everybody's going to
say, well, that was probably
just a coincidence.
>>NOORY: I don't
believe in coincidences.
I don't.
I think everything
happens for a reason.
>>COLLINS: Exactly.
So maybe we just
did it on that date,
because it felt right to do it--
because-- that it
was going to occur.
It's a two-way process.
It's like chicken and
the egg, but it worked,
and I've tried it since that.
>>NOORY: Interesting.
>>COLLINS: But I don't
think you can try it
every day, because I just
don't think it will happen.
But this told me that we
might be on to something here.
>>NOORY: I wonder if
our friends at SETI
searched for extraterrestrial
intelligence-- have
beamed their radio telescopes
that way-- their listening
devices.
>>COLLINS: They have done.
But the trouble is that's such
a narrow band of frequencies,
that if you don't
get a response,
and you come away and say,
we tried, we got nothing,
we're going to give up,
then I think that that's
very narrow-minded in a way.
I think you've got to look
at this in a much more
broad-minded--
since the discovery
of Tabby's Star,
virtually every large telescope
in the world and off-world
have been looking at that star.
>>NOORY: And they're all
fascinated by it, aren't they?
>>COLLINS: You could have--
>>NOORY: Baffled?
>>COLLINS: --but not
just that, but there are
daily updates on the star
1,300 light years away.
Oh, today, yeah,
it's dipping down.
It's going back up again.
It's like hearing the weather.
Now, when have you
known a star that's
had the same type of treatment?
>>NOORY: Never.
>>COLLINS: Never.
Now, think of all the
human minds that are now
connected with that star.
Is it possible that the
star can respond to that?
We know that on
a subatomic level
that observation can affect
the course of an experiment.
If you don't look at
it, you get one result.
If you look at it, you
get a different result.
What this means is that
consciousness somehow interacts
with a subatomic world.
Well, what--
>>NOORY: And we
know that happens.
>>COLLINS: --that
is the microcosm.
And the macrocosm is the
observation of stars.
What if our observation of them
can affect them, and change
them, maybe even update them?
And I think that there
is that possibility,
and we need to start
thinking this way.
You talked earlier
about what-- if there is
a message, what does it mean?
Why would they give us
mathematical patterns?
Well, I think that it's a part
of the next step of evolution.
Once we understand
that there are messages
to be had in this
manner, I think
that we will be able to
advance our own understanding
of technology and our
interaction with not just
extraterrestrial intelligences,
but the universe as a whole.
>>NOORY: Our friend Erich von
Daniken is hot on the trail
like you are, Andrew.
>>VON DANIKEN: Humans some
thousands of years ago--
they were taught by
extraterrestrials.
And the extraterrestrials
told them, please
make this monument
astronomically.
Most of the dolmen in French
Brittany, for example--
they are all orientated
astronomically.
In the beginning,
they saw the world.
It's just the tombstones, so
they tried to find some graves.
They found nothing.
Then a few years ago
for the first time,
a helicopter overflew
this megalithic place
in French Brittany.
And later they realized that
all these stone lines were not
standing there by coincidence.
They always measured
the same distance--
2,860 meters, or
exactly half of it.
It turns out that
all of it's composed
of different triangles--
but Pythagorean triangle.
Now, Pythagoras was a
Greek mathematician.
He was living in Greece
roughly 4, 500 BC.
But all these stones
in French Brittany
are at least 5,000
years old, so Pythagoras
had nothing to do with it,
or its link with astronomy.
Here we came to the question.
Of course, our
ancestors had no idea
of the Pythagorean triangle.
Why have they done it?
>>NOORY: He gets excited with
the mathematics behind this.
>>COLLINS: Absolutely.
And this same mathematics
we find at Gobekli Tepe.
There is Pythagorean
triangles there as well.
And these are ideas.
Therefore, must
have existed right
at the end of the last Ice Age.
And in "The Cygnus
Key," I bring this out
and show almost certainly
that it existed,
perhaps even as early as
40 to 45,000 years ago.
In other words,
at the very point
of the beginning of our
exploration of the Eurasian
continent.
>>NOORY: Andrew, why is the
knowledge apparently lost?
Where's the information
from those who passed it on,
passed it on?
So at a point with the
pyramids or Gobekli Tepe,
somebody would have said,
oh, yes, clearly, they
made this for this purpose.
It was passed down to us
over the thousands of years.
We don't have that.
Somewhere along the line
there was a separation,
and it stopped.
What happened?
>>COLLINS: It's a difficult
one without any easy answers.
But the way I look at
it is that civilizations
are like flowers that gradually
open over a period of hundreds,
if not thousands of years.
And then, eventually, due to
something, probably a cataclysm
of some kind, they then close.
And another one then
opens, maybe a few thousand
miles away, or even on the
other side of the world.
And that will remain open for a
period of time and then close.
And I think that,
unfortunately, at such time--
so a lot of this
information is lost.
And that we have to begin,
just as Plato tells us
in his account of Atlantis,
as children again, literally
with this amnesia.
And I think this
is what it's about.
I mean, we have to relearn it.
It's important
for us to relearn.
But the more that
we learn, the more
we realize that the ancients
had this knowledge as well.
>>NOORY: I have to
bring in this question
here as we get close to the end.
And that is, why?
Why is all this happening?
Somewhere along
the line, Andrew,
there's got to be that God
factor, because nothing
else makes any sense.
>>COLLINS: Well, you
could use the word God,
but you can also use
the word universe.
Personally, I like
the term, mind of God.
It's almost like
the mind of God is
the sum total of
all consciousness,
not just of humankind
now, but of humankind
in the past, and the
future, and possibly even
the consciousness of every
living being in the universe.
All of that together as one.
And somehow we can access that.
I think that the ancient
Hindus called it the Akasha,
like the store of old
information or knowledge.
And I think that we all
have access to that,
whether it's being
in the modern day,
or the ancients had it as well.
And that you achieve a certain
state of not just evolution,
but a state of mind as well.
And that you can draw that
knowledge down, utilize it,
and pass it to the general
public, the world as a whole.
And that's what we are doing.
And I think that as
people like myself,
and yourself, and
the viewers themself
that perhaps this interest are
the ones that are doing this.
>>NOORY: Oh, there's
a passion for it.
>>COLLINS: Have this passion.
Because there are many
others in this world
that don't have that
passion and not interested.
And it is, I think, up to people
like ourselves to bring all
of this knowledge to the
greater, wider world,
so that we can make use of it.
Because we can only take
it to a certain point.
I can only take this to the
scientists or the astronomers
and say, look, you
take it from here.
>>NOORY: Fascinating
work, Andrew.
Thank you so much for
being on the program.
>>COLLINS: It's
absolutely my pleasure.
>>NOORY: What a great,
great investigation
in ancient
civilization, building
a incredible structure,
but, for what purpose?
And it's that constant drive,
that constant push to find out
why, that keeps us going.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]